---
layout: post
title: "Debt"
date: 2024-09-07 23:15:09 +0200
categories: jekyll update
---

Is debt bad.
Implications of debt in prices.
Debt as a power tool.
Assets vs utility.

I've seen mixed messages over debt.

Some economic professors of mine didn't thought Nation Debt was problematic _as long as it was payed_. (Even though it surpasses many time GDP of _given_ country).

Books like Rich Dad poor Dad, started implying that Debt was bad since you
were asset over some other accounting book. Therefore you were not generating wealth yourself. You inevitably lost money as you are paying interest.

Debt is neither good nor bad. The same as 'Costs' over a ledger is neither good or bad. But sometime a necesary evil to generate wealth _as long as you are able to asume the principal and the interest_.

And is a direct contributor to wealth generation.

Taking debt for having a new full equiped kitchen. Bad
Taking debt for a car you need to go to work. Good

If you view yourself as a business company, your house mortage is a necessary costfor you to generate an income.

The principal plus the interest _is a cost_ to generate a profit. With the caveat
that it's needed to live.
This debt is an _income generator_.

This perspective assume that we live to work. Instead of work to live.

If you are taking debt for pure leasure. Not servin the need of generating income,I would call this bad debt.

Meaning if a perfectly good car that takes you to work, nothing more is necesary, a bigger, fancier car does nothing in terms of making you wealthier.

And in fact makes you poorer on the long term. Since it's just leasure expense.

What needs to be purely understood from debt is the fact that you need to asses
the risk you overtake by engagin in such a contract.
